# 2017-12-07 - Collection management system UI development

[< Back to front](./)

## Happened during last month

New front-end developers Anton and Fredrik started working at NRM in early November. We started building **Collections manager module**, which will become the tool for museum employees to do core collection management and curatorial work. The biggest task has been setting up a new system for developing the module. In technical terms, we are using React and Redux on the frontend and using Java-based API and MySQL database on the backend. There's also an automated process for testing the system (to make sure there are no serious programming errors) and for deploying the new version to NRM's servers.

We have set up an "Alpha version" of the collection manager - this is meant for testing the system by anyone. New features and other changes we are making are published on the alpha version almost every day. Alpha is accessible at two addresses:

1) Mock version: https://alpha-cm-mock.dina-web.net/ - This uses mockup data and doesn't need username for logging in
2) Data version: https://alpha-cm.dina-web.net/ - This will allow saving test data to the database. Use username NNN and password YYY to log in.

NRM's mammal collection was selected as the pilot collection, meaning we will concentrate first on building tools for them in particular, then expanding to other collections later.

The Alpha version contains a basic form for recording mammal specimen data, specifically data from an old card catalogue. It includes basic fields and some validation, and connects to the database. The design of the form is still preliminary, and will change considerably in the near future.

There's also a very basic first version of a search form. Users are also able to change the language of the user interface between English and Swedish, though many Swedish translations are still missing.

## Next we are going to

The goal of the next sprint is to build the mammal specimen record form to such a stage that meaningful testing by end users from the mammal collection is possible. This includes working on:

- Finishing basic platform for developing and deploying.
- Creating a simple form that can be tested by mammal collection users. Save specimen data to the database, using the collections API. Add necessary fields. Design the form for better usability.
- Adding ability to record basic taxon information and to show storage location.
- Enabling search by a few key fields (catalogue number and taxon name) from data from database, provide results as a list, and link to the entry form for editing.
- Adding a start page for non-logged in users, describing what the system is and what has been changed

The next sprint will continue until 2018-01-09 due to Christmas and New Year. After that we will get back to two-week sprints.
