# 2018-01-16 - Platform for registration form and search

[< Back to front](./)

## Happened during last month

We had a five-week sprint due to Christmas vacations. Things done during the sprint:

**Landing page**: The front page <https://alpha-cm.dina-web.net/> now shows some information about the DINA-Web.

**Simple search** form can be used to find specimens by a catalogue number (try 12345) and a taxon name (try "Mus musculus"). The result list links to the edit form, which can be then used to edit the specimens. The form has only few new fields compared to last sprint, but can be used for testing with the fields it has. New fields are added in the next sprint.

**Extending the database** (and the API used to access it) to handle mammal specimen data. This is something that is continuosly worked on, whenever new fields are added to specimen record forms.

We also created a **basic platform for developing and deploying** the user interface. [Technical list of new features can be seen at Github](https://github.com/DINA-Web/dina-collections-ui/pulls?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Apr), and the lastest UI is available at

* https://alpha-cm-mock.dina-web.net/ (mockup data, any login) 
* https://alpha-cm.dina-web.net/ (database data, ask login from team(at)mail.dina-web.net)

So-called **notification platform**: A set of tools to show users error messages, help texts and other kind of notifications, which help using the system. The goal is to have help texts and other information presented to the users in understandable format and at the point where they are needed, instead of having completely separate manual somewhere else.

**Planning data migration**. New tools for transforming, validating and migrating the mammal collection data to DINA were planned and partly done.

## Next we are going to do

During the next sprint (2018-01-16/23) we will design and add more features with the aim of strarting testing the system with real specimen data soon.

* Better locality management (partly done already)
* Better catalogue number handling
* More fields for determination, and allowing multiple determinations in one specimen
* Planning for
    * How to handle curated localities and connect specimens to them. A curated locality is a pre-defined geographical area, for example a country or a trap site. 
    * Feature observations: how to handle e.g. different kinds of measurements
    * How dates are handled
