# 2018-01-30 - Added functionality on registration form

[< Back to front](./)

## Happened during last two weeks

We mostly worked on the mammal record form, adding fields and improving functionality.

Now there is possibility to have **multiple determinations** in a single specimen. These are displayed as an “accordion”, meaning that each determination can be "expanded" to reveal its content, while others are “collapsed” and display only a summary of the determination.

Determination element also contains few **new fields and a button to copy the taxon name to verbatim taxon name**, which can be used to reduce typing in the case these are similar. We already have user feedback on these, and the determination element will be improved in upcoming sprints.

There are many **new locality fields**. Some of these (continent & country) use test data from the current mammal collection system. More restructuring of these fields will follow, to create tools for adding, editing and using “curated localities” - a database of shared and standardized localities with coordinates.

We created a platform for **contextual help** messages: by clicking on the ? icon shown next to (most) fields, a help sidebar is opened.

In addition we worked on better login/logout system, improved code testing.

Try these out in the Alpha mock version at: https://alpha-cm-mock.dina-web.net/
(use random username and password)

There are also new and improved tools for supporting the development of the system:
- [Test coverate report](https://alpha-cm-mock.dina-web.net/coverage/index.html)
- [UI component documentation](https://alpha-cm-mock.dina-web.net/storybook/index.html?selectedKind=coreModules%2Fbootstrap%2FDefaultLoader&selectedStory=Not%20loading&full=0&down=1&left=1&panelRight=0&downPanel=storybook%2Factions%2Factions-panel)
- [API documentation](https://alpha-api-docs.dina-web.net/?url=https://alpha-api-docs.dina-web.net/openApi.json&docExpansion=false&defaultModelRendering=model&defaultModelExpandDepth=0)

## Next we are going to

- Develop better catalogue number handling: the ability to choose between automatically assigned (preferred) or user-defined catalogue numbers.
- Develop curated locality management (see above)
- Design data model and user interfaces for new features, adding fields on the form and then improving design and user interface
  - Feature observations (e.g. age, sex, measurements)
  - Storage locations and determinations
  - Handling several physical objects (e.g. skin and bones from same individual)
  - Inventory status (is the specimen found in collection)
  - Additional identifiers (e.g. “old skin numbers”, Rovbase numbers, old loan numbers)
- Plan mammal data migration
- Focus more on medium-term (few months … end of year) planning
- Prepare for annual DINA International meeting in Berlin, at the end of February
