# 2018-03-13 - Database and API improvements

[< Back to front](./)

## Happened during last month

During the last month most of the work has been done on the database and API, instead of creating new features visible for users.

Data model has been restructured in significant ways. The aim here is to provide more flexible basis for future development, to accommodate new collections and allow fast development of new features. Data model and the API built on it has been split into several logical parts, e.g. separating storage handling from actual specimen handling.

API is now built using Javascript and Node. This allows using same technology and code on both frontend (user interface) and backend (API and database), and using a "single source of truth" to specify the data model and data validation rules. This will reduce complexity and room for errors.

Database was switched to PostgreSQL, which allows more powerful and flexible document-oriented functionality than previously used MySQL. The user interface has also been adjusted to use the new database and API.

DINA International Technical Committee held a meeting in Berlin in late February, sharing progress and discussing how to proceed. NRM will continue with building first version of the collection management system for NRM's Mammal collection, AAFC will focus on SeqDB and a taxonomy service, and MfN will work on label and data migration tools. The partners will together continue on high-level long-term planning for generic cross-collection system.

User interface has one new feature: better catalogue number handling. The system can create a catalogue number automatically, or allow user to set it manually.

## Next we are going to

- Finish setting up new data model with the database and API
- Better feature observation handling on the specimen entry form (age, sex, measurements, bone counts etc.)
- Design 
   - More advanced curated locality management
   - Storage locations and determinations
   - Handling several physical objects (e.g. skin and bones from same individual)
   - Inventory status (is the specimen found in collection)

